Clean up metric customization to get rid of envoyfilter based text editing (#7952)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/index.md

Istio uses the Envoy proxy to generate metrics and provides its configuration in
the `EnvoyFilter` at
[`manifests/charts/istio-control/istio-discovery/templates/telemetryv2_1.7.yaml`]({{<github_blob>}}/manifests/charts/istio-control/istio-discovery/templates/telemetryv2_1.7.yaml).

Configuring custom statistics involves two sections of the
`EnvoyFilter`: `definitions` and `metrics`. The `definitions` section
supports creating new metrics by name, the expected value expression, and the
metric type (`counter`, `gauge`, and `histogram`). The `metrics` section
provides values for the metric dimensions as expressions, and allows you to
remove or override the existing metric dimensions. You can modify the standard
metric definitions using `tags_to_remove` or by re-defining a dimension. These

> configuration sections are also exposed as istioctl installation options, which
> allow you to customize metrics differently for gateway and sidecar at inbound
> or outbound direction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration settings are also exposed as istioctl installation options, which
allow you to customize different metrics for gateways and sidecars as well as
for the inbound or outbound direction.
```

## Enable custom metrics

> 1. By default, Telemetry v2 `EnvoyFilter` configuration is equivalent to the following installation options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The default telemetry v2 `EnvoyFilter` configuration is equivalent to the following installation options:
```

    {{< text yaml >}}

> apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
> kind: IstioOperator
> spec:
>   value:
>     telemetry:
>       v2:
>         prometheus:
>           configOverride:
>             inboundSidecar:
>               debug: false
>               stat_prefix: istio
>             outboundSidecar:
>               debug: false
>               stat_prefix: istio
>             gateway:
>               debug: false
>               stat_prefix: istio
>               disable_host_header_fallback: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: IstioOperator
    spec:
      value:
        telemetry:
          v2:
            prometheus:
              configOverride:
                inboundSidecar:
                  debug: false
                  stat_prefix: istio
                outboundSidecar:
                  debug: false
                  stat_prefix: istio
                gateway:
                  debug: false
                  stat_prefix: istio
                  disable_host_header_fallback: true
```

    {{< /text >}}

>     To customize Telemetry v2 metrics, for example to add `request_host`
>     and `destionation_port` tags to `requests_total` metric emitted by gateway
>     and sidecars both at inbound and outbound direction, you can augment installation
>     options as following. Note you only need to specify the configuration override
>     section that you need customization. For example, if you only want to customize
>     sidecar inbound `requests_count` metric, you can omit `outboundSidecar` and
>     `inboundSidecar` sections in the following configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To customize telemetry v2 metrics, for example, to add `request_host`
    and `destination_port` dimensions to the `requests_total` metric emitted by both
    gateways and sidecars in the inbound and outbound direction, change the installation
    options as follows:
    
    {{< tip >}}
    You only need to specify the configuration for the settings that you want to customize.
    For example, to only customize the sidecar inbound `requests_count` metric, you can omit
    in the `outboundSidecar` and `inboundSidecar` sections in the configuration. Unspecified
    settings will retain the default configuration, equivalent to the explicit settings shown above.
    {{< /tip >}}
```

    {{< text yaml >}}

> apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
> kind: IstioOperator
> spec:
>   value:
>     telemetry:
>       v2:
>         prometheus:
>           configOverride:
>             inboundSidecar:
>               debug: false
>               stat_prefix: istio
>               metrics:
>                 - name: requests_total
>                   dimensions:
>                     destination_port: string(destination.port)
>                     request_host: request.host
>             outboundSidecar:
>               debug: false
>               stat_prefix: istio
>               metrics:
>                 - name: requests_total
>                   dimensions:
>                     destination_port: string(destination.port)
>                     request_host: request.host
>             gateway:
>               debug: false
>               stat_prefix: istio
>               disable_host_header_fallback: true
>               metrics:
>                 - name: requests_total
>                   dimensions:
>                     destination_port: string(destination.port)
>                     request_host: request.host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: IstioOperator
    spec:
      value:
        telemetry:
          v2:
            prometheus:
              configOverride:
                inboundSidecar:
                  debug: false
                  stat_prefix: istio
                  metrics:
                    - name: requests_total
                      dimensions:
                        destination_port: string(destination.port)
                        request_host: request.host
                outboundSidecar:
                  debug: false
                  stat_prefix: istio
                  metrics:
                    - name: requests_total
                      dimensions:
                        destination_port: string(destination.port)
                        request_host: request.host
                gateway:
                  debug: false
                  stat_prefix: istio
                  disable_host_header_fallback: true
                  metrics:
                    - name: requests_total
                      dimensions:
                        destination_port: string(destination.port)
                        request_host: request.host
```
